#DEBUG_HTML 1.1 - Intro to debugging common HTML errors
#DEBUG_HTML 1.2 - Common errors
#DEBUG_HTML 1.3 - HTML Validator
#DEBUG_HTML 1.4 - Outro to debugging common HTML errors



#DEBUG_HTML 1.1 - Intro to debugging common HTML errors
Hey Chris from Codify Academy here, in this video I want to cover the most common mistakes I make in HTML, and how you can avoid doing them.

#DEBUG_HTML 1.2 - Common errors
Common Error #1 Missing the doctype in your HTML, without it a browser will just display plain text, lucky for us we have this in our template so its ok.
Common Error #2 Missing the html, head or body tags in your document, and one more time we have this in our template so we don't need to worry about it.
Common Error #3 Missing the character encoding, again we have this in our template. so it should be an issue

Common Error #4 Having an extra end tag when there shouldn't be one or forgetting the end tag of an element.  Just remember normally an element has a start and an end tag.  You can always use the shortcut to build the element using Atom.
Common Error #5 Forgetting the slash in a closing element, this error can be avoided by using Atom to make your elements for you.
Common Error #6 Not adding an attribute to a start tag, this one I figured out pretty quick, but remember attributes will only be added to a start tag, never on an end tag.
Common Error #7 Incorrectly adding additional attributes to elements - sometimes you will add more than 1 attribute to an element, just add a space inside of the start tag and then you can add the attribute, there is no limit to these.

When I was learning to code, I didn't know of a thing called a template So i made these mistakes a bunch.

As I progressed and learned more about shortcuts I realized I could use my text editor to avoid a lot of these mistakes. I encourage you to try and recognize the color patterns in your text editor, often times as you code you can notice a different pattern happening and it gives me a good starting point of my error, which is usually syntax  or spelling.

Look at mine, tags are red, syntax and content are white, attributes are orange and their values in quotes are green.
If something looks different then that I know something is incorrect around that area.



#DEBUG_HTML 1.3 - HTML Validator
We can also use the HTML validator to see if we have any errors, I always use the direct input method.

just use control or command c to copy and v to paste your code.


#DEBUG_HTML 1.4 - Outro to debugging common HTML errors
overtime you will learn to spot errors by the color pattern in your text editor!
